In the breeding process we, phrases to pick up the
Acts 5.
The
Atlantic community as well as our latest
distinguished husband.
Lady Ali, it's good to have you with us.
What did you think about the NATO conference that we have just completed?
I thought it was a really great success this time.
It seemed to me to go very smoothly and harmoniously and we passed on to fresh subjects that interest
to me very much like the economic cooperation as well as the military cooperation and also
the cooperation on the sort of intellectual and study side.
But you are particularly interested in how to do it.
Yes, I am.
I think it all of us agreed that we had to, all of our nations had to contribute and do
something to help with the developing nations of Africa, Asia and South America.
And for that purpose, we recommended the approval of OECD which would include the NATO nations
plus some others in the Atlantic community.
I think that's excellent because that is really one of the burning subjects facing the
whole world.
Yes, and we have got to have, we can't be working across purposes.
I think that was understood.
They were spying on understanding and cooperation about this economic problem.
It could be more.
I think there will be more participation by all of our NATO nations.
Don't you think so?
I think that's a big deal.
Yes, and certainly important.
I think the conference was the best one that we have ever had and I think this is my
fourth or fifth one to attend.
And from our American delegation, of course, we had Vice President-elect Senator Johnson,
Senator Fulbright, the chairman of our Foreign Relations Committee, and you had a very
distinguished delegation from the United Kingdom.
Yes, we had members of the Labour Party and members of the Liberal Party, members of the
House of Lords, all together.
It was good, I think.
Lady, I think one thing I've had very much interest in today, and then it was a resolution
that I sponsored here in the NATO parliamentarians too.
As you have been interested in this too, we have authorized, in our Congress, the appointing
of delegates to have a citizens convention on NATO problems during the next year.
And here at the Parliamentarians' Association, we've passed a resolution recommending that
other nations appoint delegates.
And I know of your great interest in this, appreciate your support.
Yes, well, I so agree with you that what we want to do is we want to make the ordinary
people of our two countries, indeed all other countries in the world, understand something
about what the NATO learns, really means.
And you can't do that by only talking about military things because military things passed
by people who can't, if you can get hold of them, to discuss how they are connected with
cooperation, well, we might get something.
And then there are so many problems coming up in this conference like NATO control of
atomic weapons and their use.
And I think, in our economic aid to the developing nations, many, many of our trade policies as
they relate to the Soviet Union.
I think all of these things should require the lengthy consideration and the full consideration
of a citizens' convention, where they would have time to call in experts and time to
meet and to thank and to meet again and to make recommendations to their government.
I think this might give us some ideas that would enable us to be on the way to many solutions.
I agree with you.
After all, we've got to work more with this, more doors, we've got to look out on the
world, onto a new picture.
And I think that there is one of the things that it might well do.
I was very interested in it indeed.
Well, Lady Elliott, you have been very much interested in the Atlantic Institute.
Will you, we have a moment where you say something?
Yes, will the Atlantic Institute, is really the idea of mobilizing the intellectual and
university and skilled technicians in the field of landing in the same way as we've mobilized
them in the field of military affairs so that we can draw upon their ideas and their suggestions
for a policy for the NATO nations over and above the policy of military cooperation.
And I don't, we may get something out.
Well, Lady Elliott, thank you very much for being on this program.
And again, ladies and gentlemen, this is Esther's key fault, we're speaking from NATO headquarters
in Paris and reporting with Lady Elliott on the happenings of our sixth annual NATO
parliamentarians conference.
Thank you.